http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/09/10/coinbase-extends-bitcoin-access-to-international-customers/
2014-09-10
Coinbase is taking its Bitcoin services to Europe in a move that could help expand the virtual currency’s reach.The company, one of the most popular digital wallet providers, said on Wednesday that it was expanding to 13 European countries, including France, Italy and the Netherlands, by allowing those with authorized European bank accounts to buy and sell Bitcoins in exchange for euros. Previously, only users with United States bank accounts could exchange Bitcoins on Coinbase, though anyone in the world could set up a digital wallet to hold the virtual currency.“The ability to easily buy and sell Bitcoin has been a really key factor in accelerating Bitcoin adoption,” said Fred Ehrsam, a co-founder of Coinbase. “This opens up the entire network to a larger degree.”In the beginning, Coinbase, based in San Francisco, will limit Bitcoin purchases and sales to 500 euros, or about $645, a day to ensure the process is smooth, but Mr. Ehrsam said he expected that limit to increase quickly. Coinbase allows United States users to buy and sell up to $50,000 a day in Bitcoin.Coinbase’s move comes as Bitcoin is at a pivotal point in its development. Bitcoin has undeniably become more popular since it was introduced in 2009 by an anonymous founder known as Satoshi Nakamoto, with a number of well-known merchants, including Overstock and Dell, now accepting the virtual currency. Just this week, Braintree, the payments processing company owned by eBay, said that its customers would soon be able to accept Bitcoin.Regulators around the world have taken note of Bitcoin as well, stirring anxiety in some circles that government oversight will squash the freedom and anonymity that attracts many virtual currency users.But even as Bitcoin enters the mainstream lexicon, supporters say Bitcoin’s potential — which lies in its underlying technology — has yet to be fully exploited. For the virtual currency to become truly useful, they say, Bitcoin must harness this peer-to-peer technology to make it easier to complete tasks that were previously difficult, expensive or impossible. These include cross-border transfers like remittances, which, under the current financial system, can be subject to high fees and long delays. By taking out the middleman, Bitcoin could offer a simpler, cheaper way for people to send money across the globe.One of the first steps, however, is getting Bitcoin into the hands of more people, and companies like Coinbase — along with other exchanges that accept multiple currencies — are playing a big role in expanding the virtual currency’s network.Coinbase, which has raised $31 million from prominent investors, expects to grow even more rapidly with the new expansion. The company has 1.6 million customer accounts, largely in the United States, up from 20,000 at the beginning of 2013, Mr. Ehrsam said. He added that he was optimistic that European activity would equal that in the United States in about a year. Eventually, Coinbase is planning to extend its offerings to countries beyond Europe.As Bitcoin becomes more accessible, Mr. Ehrsam said he hoped more merchants across the globe would begin to accept the virtual currency as a payment option. Coinbase, which has teamed up with many of the big-name merchants in the United States to process Bitcoin payments, is also working on creating online payment pages for merchants in their local languages.“Bitcoin is inherently international, and one of its great promises is it enable cross-border payments in a more efficient way,” Mr. Ehrsam said. “It now allows these cross-border payments to flow, and the entire network benefits from the fact that we happen to be the ones to launch it.”