http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/06/18/list-of-potential-bitcoin-bidders-is-accidentally-released/
2014-06-18
A musician, a college professor and the head of public policy for Yelp could all bid on 30,000 Bitcoins being auctioned by United States Marshals Service this month, according to a list that was accidentally leaked by the office on Wednesday.According to CoinDesk, an online website devoted to Bitcoin, the list of people who inquired about the auction include an “artist and musician” named Shem Booth, a business professor from Rowan University, Barry Silbert, the head of the online exchange SecondMarket, and Fred Ehrsam, the co-founder of Coinbase, a Bitcoin payment processor.CoinDesk said that the United States Marshals Service had accidentally released the names in an email to update interested parties on the auction’s guidelines.A spokeswoman for the Marshals, Lynzey Donahue, released a statement confirming that the office had accidentally made the email addresses public, but did not confirm for whom.“The message was intended to blind copy everyone with an attached document that contained frequently asked questions and answers on the subject,” Ms. Donahue said. “The U.S.M.S. apologizes for this mistake, which was in no way intentional.”Some of the names on the list were not surprising. Mr. Silbert had already announced that he planned to create an investment vehicle to participate in the auction. Coinbase, which converts Bitcoin into dollars, may see the auction as an opportunity to buy Bitcoin on the cheap that it could then resell to its vast network of usersA spokesman for Coinbase could not immediately be reached for comment.Indeed, many of the people who ultimately bid may be interested for similar reasons, according to Gil Luria, an analyst with Wedbush Securities. Mr. Luria speculated that several of the potential bidders, which include lawyers and investment groups, could be acting on behalf of a pool of investors who want to get their hands on Bitcoin below its current price of about $600.The list of interested parties, which also includes Luther Lowe, the director of public policy for Yelp,  may not be complete. Notably absent is Pantera Bitcoin, the new virtual currency fund that has backing from investors including the investment firm Fortress Investment Group.Pantera is participating in the auction, according to Dan Morehead, who founded Pantera Bitcoin’s parent company, Pantera Capital, in 2003.Mr. Lowe said that he had inquired about the auction as a “private investor,” and not on behalf of Yelp, according to an update to Coindesk’s story.The United States Marshals Service seized the 30,000 Bitcoins when the F.B.I. shut down Silk Road, the now-defunct virtual currency marketplace that federal prosecutors accused of facilitating drug deals and other illicit transactions.The coins are currently worth about $18 million, and represent less than 1 percent of the roughly 13 million currently in circulation.Some virtual currency enthusiasts have raised concerns that the Marshals’ auction could affect the value of the  digital money,  especially given that Bitcoin has fluctuated wildly since it was first introduced in 2009.But Mr. Luria, the analyst, said he did not expect the price of Bitcoin to change significantly after the auction.“I think the market has had enough time to digest the supply that’s coming on board,” he said.The auction process began on Monday, and the Marshal’s office will notify winning bidders at the end of the month.Only 21 million Bitcoins exist in total, and several are released every few minutes through a process known as “mining.” Users unlock Bitcoins by solving complex, computer-driven algorithms.Created by an anonymous computer programmer, or group of programmers, Bitcoin has quickly been gaining popularity, even though it has not yet found a mainstream footing. The fledgling industry has attracted a growing list of investors banking on the wider adoption of virtual currency, even as enthusiasts continue to face  technological and regulatory challenges. 