http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/09/04/charles-shrem-bitcoin-supporter-pleads-guilty-to-federal-charge/
2014-09-04
Charles Shrem, an outspoken proponent of Bitcoin who has come to symbolize the government’s crackdown on the virtual currency, pleaded guilty on Thursday to one count of aiding and abetting the operation of an unlicensed money transmitting business.Mr. Shrem was arrested in January and was accused of using his company to convert dollars into Bitcoin for users of Silk Road, the now-defunct online marketplace known for selling narcotics and drug paraphernalia. Federal prosecutors contend that he operated the scheme in cooperation with Robert Faiella, known as BTCKing. Mr. Faiella also pleaded guilty on Thursday to operating an unlicensed money transmitting business.The pleas were part of a deal with prosecutors from the office of Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan.Reading from a statement, Mr. Shrem said he had knowingly helped Mr. Faiella from January 2012 to October 2012 by exchanging dollars into Bitcoin using his company, BitInstant. He said Mr. Faiella would in turn sell Bitcoin to people who wanted to buy drugs on Silk Road.“I knew that what I was doing was wrong,” Mr. Shrem, 24, said in the statement. “I am pleading guilty because I am guilty.”
Mr. Shrem and Mr. Faiella both face up to five years in prison. Judge Jed S. Rakoff of the Federal District Court set Jan. 20 as the sentencing date for both men.Before Thursday’s hearing in New York federal court in downtown Manhattan, Mr. Shrem, in jeans and a dark suit jacket, sat alone on a bench outside courtroom 14B, his right leg crossed over his left as he read a book. He appeared calm, fidgeting only slightly once he entered the courtroom. Known for his charisma, he was instead stoic, his voice unwavering, when he entered his plea.A founding member of the Bitcoin Foundation’s board and a co-founder and former chief executive of the company BitInstant, Mr. Shrem has been one of the most vocal advocates of Bitcoin. After his arrest at Kennedy International Airport in January, some in the Bitcoin world have distanced themselves from Mr. Shrem. And while Mr. Shrem’s charisma has given him a powerful voice among Bitcoin enthusiasts, a few have expressed concern that he has a tendency to say too much. Though he had been under house arrest at his parents’ house in Brooklyn, he has continued to speak publicly in support of Bitcoin. He has also been working for Payza, an online platform for sending and receiving the coins.Mr. Shrem’s lawyer, Marc Agnifilo, said after the court appearance that Mr. Shrem had every intention of staying involved with Bitcoin. “Charlie Shrem is on a path to making Bitcoin a more accepted and useful currency,” he said. “If God smiles on him, hopefully he will be back in the Bitcoin world.”