http://dealbook.nytimes.com/2014/12/16/time-inc-begins-accepting-bitcoin-payments/
2014-12-16
A large magazine publisher is trying to stay on the digital cutting edge.On Tuesday, Time Inc. announced that it would accept payments in Bitcoin for certain subscriptions. Like many companies that have started accepting Bitcoin, Time Inc. has teamed up with Coinbase, a popular Bitcoin wallet, to process the transactions. “This pilot program will give Bitcoin users a seamless and simple way to purchase subscriptions,” Lynne Biggar, the executive vice president for consumer marketing and revenue at Time Inc., said in a statement. “We hope to expand our partnership with Coinbase in the coming months to create more opportunities to provide greater value to our customers.”Consumers can purchase subscriptions for Fortune, Health, This Old House and Travel and Leisure. Other Time Inc. publications, including People, Sports Illustrated and Food and Wine, have been excluded for now.Many companies that have begun allowing users to transact with Bitcoin have been rooted in technology, including Overstock, Dell and Expedia. Time Inc.’s decision is a sign that even once-traditional businesses are now seeing opportunity in Bitcoin. Digital currency, for instance, would give consumers a faster way to pay for subscriptions. Bitcoin transactions also cost merchants less than credit card payments in processing fees. “For a major publisher like Time Inc. to embrace Bitcoin sends an important message to both its readers and to the broader media community,” Brian Armstrong, the chief executive and co-founder of Coinbase, said in a statement. In a separate blog post, Coinbase said Time Inc.’s decision to accept Bitcoin would help the publishing industry “understand and explore new business models that can be enabled with Bitcoin,” including micropayments. The idea is that consumers could one day pay for individual articles or videos with Bitcoin.Time Inc., which says it reaches 130 million consumers each month, has been criticized for holding on too strongly to its past, and accepting Bitcoin may be part of the company’s attempt to be seen as hipper and younger.Although Bitcoin will probably not solve the magazine industry’s wider problems, including declining subscriptions and sliding revenue, Time Inc.’s decision is obviously already generating publicity.