http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-22110345
2013-04-11
Yesterday afternoon I looked at my mobile phone and found that I had $121 (£79) in it. A couple of hours later though, I only had $79 (£51). But by this morning my phone told me I had $93 (£60) to spend.Actually, what I had was 0.53 in Bitcoin, the virtual currency whose wild gyrations over the last 24 hours have raised questions about its long-term viability.   I got my Bitcoin a couple of weeks ago, because I was making a radio piece about the currency. My mission then was to work out how easy it was to get and then spend Bitcoins - and I eventually ended up with a rather expensive pizza, ordered via an American site and delivered by a London chain. The whole cumbersome process of getting and spending the currency invented in 2009 by a mysterious Japanese (or possibly American) man called Satashi Nakamoto convinced me of one thing - that Bitcoin was not yet much use except as a means of speculation. The only reason to get hold of Bitcoins right now is because you think they might be worth a lot more in a few hours or days. Now if you bought into the market back in January when you could get one Bitcoin for $15 (£10) you'd have been pretty smug yesterday when the price hit a new high of $260 (£170). But if you were one of those who found out about Bitcoin from the mass of recent  media and bought at yesterday's peak, then you've learned a valuable lesson - like tulips in the 17th Century and London houses in 1988, prices can go down as well as up.There have been all sorts of explanations of what caused yesterday's crash - from a problem at the main exchange to a strange incident in which someone called Bitcoinbillionaire apparently started giving away large sums on the social news site Reddit.  A likelier reason is our old friends Greed and Fear combining to inflate and then depress prices as all those new arrivals crowded into the market.All this talk of a Bitcoin bubble has annoyed the true believers - an interesting mixture of libertarians and cryptographic specialists charmed by the idea of a currency that embodies many of the open and virtually ungoverned principles of the internet itself.  They maintain that the key feature of Bitcoin is that the supply can never exceed a certain number - 21 million - and that it has recovered from previous crashes when its demise was predicted.What is true is that we are seeing a fascinating experiment in what a currency of the future might look like. But unless and until Bitcoin can be used to buy a sandwich, or be accepted by your friends when you pay them back for a restaurant meal, then it is likely to remain just a playground for geeks and gamblers.