http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/03/06/bitcoin-is-a-protocol-bitcoin-is-a-brand/
2014-03-06
Updated with additional reporting.  | 
So it appears the creator of Bitcoin may not have been a young Japanese mathematical wizard as had been long rumored. Instead, as Newsweek has first reported, he is believed to be a 64-year-old Japanese-American man named Satoshi Nakamoto who clearly does not care for attention.It is notable that the man Newsweek has identified as the creator of Bitcoin, has denied that he has anything to do with it. There is also — still — wide confusion about what Bitcoin is. Bitcoin, an Internet-based cryptocurrency, has been in the news for months, of course. Conceptions of what Bitcoin actually is, however, still run from money to software to a network of diehard believers.The Bitcoin-like currencies like Auroracoin, Dogecoin or Unobtanium offer another perspective: More than anything, Bitcoin is a brand.On one level, Bitcoin is an open-source software protocol for creating an encrypted “currency,” against which people store value. That is partly to give users peace of mind, since it can be inspected for security or flaws and upgraded by its own users.Open-source code can also be copied and reconfigured, cheaply enough that you might consider making a coin for your sweetheart.“It takes about 20 minutes, and costs about $50,” said Brock Pierce, a Bitcoin entrepreneur and investor. “I’ve seen 275 logos of different coins. There’s probably thousands.” He was speaking at the Oasis conference in Los Angeles, where a crowd of traditional investors seemed generally warm to the new currencies.There is not a lot of financial risk here. The website Coinmarketcap keeps tabs on the 100 most valuable. The biggest is Bitcoin, with a total market capitalization of about $8.3 billion, or 70 percent of the $11.1 billion in total market cap of all 100 coins. Ripple, the second largest (and a trading system not based on Bitcoin) is at $1.5 billion. The recent No. 100 on the list, Pandacoin, had a market cap of $88,537, or about twice what Arby’s paid for the hat that the singer Pharrell Williams wore at the Grammy awards in January.It should be noted that the recent fall of the Mt. Gox Bitcoin exchange, with losses of about $460 million, had much more to do with the lack of oversight at the exchange, and not with Bitcoin as a protocol. Eric E. Schmidt, the executive chairman of Google, is one believer in the integrity of the Bitcoin software. “I had a look at the code,” he said. “It’s very good. Very sound.”Several of the new “–coins” themselves are gimmicky. Auroracoin promises to give coins to every citizen of Iceland, and recently had the fourth-largest market cap, at $367 million. Dogecoin is named for the lovable Internet meme. Unobtanium is named after the preposterous anti-gravitational mineral in the movie “Avatar.” It pains some Bitcoin fans. “Early on, I thought, ‘Oh God — fragmentation,’” Mr. Pierce said. “It’s inevitable.” Now he’s decided that it’s a good thing. Lots of people are trying out different styles of money, until the world finds one it loves.Which shows how Bitcoin’s fate is tied to its brand: The network of users is also a network of believers, who are moved to use one of these protocols over another as a currency. And if the brand falters, Bitcoin will be sold off. To that end, Bitcoin’s fast recovery from the Mt. Gox collapse is a positive for the brand.It could be argued that paper money is a country’s brand, as well, except traditional money comes with hard rules and enforced regulations that tend to overpower emotional claims. Dogecoin, which became big in part because that doggie is just so cute, cannot quite make the same claim.In open-source software, continuous tweaks to existing code, to the point of making the end product altogether different, is known as “forking.” It is considered bad, since it makes it hard to build a standard. The continual churn of currencies, and the promiscuous use of the protocol, make some people suspicious of how well Bitcoin and its kin will endure. “I used to do security for a lot of three-letter agencies, and I don’t think Bitcoin has really been through a thorough security check,” said Alex Payne, co-founder and former chief technical officer of Simple, an online bank that last month was sold to BBVA for $117 million.“A cryptocurrency that the world uses for the next 50 years will have to get audits from regulators, universities, places the entrepreneurs of these currencies like to ridicule,” he added.